# HR-Data
HR Data representation of a Company

### Project Title: HR Insight on Attrition and Satisfaction of Employee in an Organization

### Project Overview
This is an insight generated by the HR which aims to show the total numbers of Employee in an organization in the last one year. This also helps us to understand how satisfied and unsatisfied some staffs are in the organization. It also helps tell compelling stories around the attrition rate and departments to which this attrittion has majorly imparted also a visual representation and some calculations all done on the Power BI platform. This will help the company know what and which area to improve on and how best to move forward as an organizzation.

### Data Sources
The primary source of our data used for this project is an HR data from the company we are creating this analysis for.

### Tools Used
- Power BI which can be downloaded from the Microsoft Store or [Download here](https://apps.microsoft.com/detail/9ntxr16hnw1t?launch=true&mode=full&hl=en-us&gl=ng&ocid=bingwebsearch)
  1. For creating Calculated Measures
  2. For Creating Calculatd Colunm
  3. Using Matrix to show relationships between data
  4. Tables also for showing relationships
  5. Add Colunm to add or insert formulas you will like to see
  6. Conditional Colunm to help ensure your conditions are either true or false
  7. Cards to help show measurement Values
  8. Slicers to help connect your visuals and
  9. Charts to also confirm relationships or show imparts of various measures.
  10. For Data Visualization

 ### Data Cleaning and Preparation
 In the initial phase of the Data cleaning and preparation we were able to carry out the following;
  1. Data loading from excel into the BI environment by selecting the Transform data
  2. Where promoted headers were deleted and first role where transformed to header
  3. Then we checked our Data type to ensure they are all sitting under the bucket they are meant to sit under.
  4. Also under the Transform Data we were able to preview or Data under view to check its quality, profile and Distribution
  5. After which we built the total number of employee clicking on the Employee count under the HR Data
  6. We later worked on getting the attrition count by utilizing the Q&A under the card option another means is by using the Conditonal Colunm
  7. Also we were able to formaat our Visual to suite what and how we need it to be or look like.
  8. We also sorted the age group to come from the lowest to the largest using the Conditional Colunm 

### Exploratory Data Analysis
This involved using the Data we have from the HR to answer some questions such as;
 -The total Number of Employee in the company
 -The remaining Employee after some left
 -Average Age of all Employee ever worked in the company
 -Attrition Count by Department
 -Age group

 ### Data Analysis
 This includes some of the DAX expressions we were during our Analysis ;
 ```Power BI
= Table.AddColumn(#"Changed Type4", "Job Satisfaction Rating", each if [Job Satisfaction] = 1 then "Very Dissatisfied" else if [Job Satisfaction] = 2 then "Dissatisfied" else if [Job Satisfaction] = 3 then "Satisfied" else 4)
```
  
